Meeting with Andy about paper


0)
suggested overall paper outline:
dna mechanics + nucleosome geometry/heterogeneity are points that are definitely
part of chromatin's structure, and everyone can accept that.
However, we will show in this paper that the latter two bits are in fact
*necessary*, for any reasonable model of chromatin.

OR

geometry dominates
when there'e heterogeneity in spacing, it "averages out"
the averaged out, geometry-dominated chains HUGELY change the properties

I.E.

geometry dominates
averaging out heterogeneity in geometry allows us to compute the properties of
these polymers, and they are soooo different from what you would think

1)
why even talk about the zig-zag model to begin with
because we see that kind of thing in vivo!

probably we should include an image of in vivo dna being disordered!
add Ou image to Figure 1. (don't worry about fair use stuff for now, let journal
legal team handle it.)

maybe reduce current figure 1 by 30%, and add and excerpt from Ou to make the
figure three panels across


2)
more in general, maybe we should motivate more why we chose such a simple model.

why is the dna physics and the nucleosome geometry enough to make statements
that are relevant to stuff that's happening in vivo?

it's because we can match the picture of what we see in vivo qualitatively

put this language in the intro


2.5)
Andy still feels like we didn't emphasize the linker length heterogeneity
enough. when adding the language in "2)", make sure to also use that as a tool
to emphasize linker length heterogeneity also being necessary.


3)
we should make the "folk theorem" argument (freely rotating chain becomes WLC
on average for heterogenous chains) just in words. put current 4a in the
supplement, the # of biophysics that would care about that fact is
probably...not that big. the ones that do have seen it before


4)
when interpreting the local organization of the local organization and physical
manipulation of dna in variety of biological processes. the prevailing viewpoint
that dna mechanics is adequate for predicting the processes
is...inconsistenct....with the data that you're showing.

basically: you can move nucleosomes around to affect the polymer structure much
more than you ever could by bending it.

you can much more easily affect DNA's structure by moving the nucleosomes around
than by trying to just bend the DNA

use strong words! "existing characterization is too idealized. future ... MUST
acknowledge the contribution of the geometry."


5)
put block co-polymer stuff in the intro instead. because if we want to make a
statement about general physics, it needs to be in the intro so that people
reading the paper for that purpose can interpret it correctly.

more broadly, make the statement that quenched heterogeneity can outweigh
thermal fluctuations...in other types of models.

but either way it should all go in the intro


6)
need to add words to some figure labels
figure 3, call sigma the "range", use that same word in the text when we
define sigma

in figure 2, ylabel call it "end to end distance"

7)
remake the looping times figure with exponential times
